---
layout: post
title: Sight
published: true
tags:
  - fiction
redirect_from:
  - post/40245302325/sight
  - post/40245302325
---

It was Veleriy Zyvotov's work that finally brought an end to the AI winter. The
Z-papers, as they became known, were a tour de force in cortical theory and
marked the beginnings of the Brain Decade. For the next dozen or so years
scientists would scrutinize and map every nook and cranny of the human neocortex
in an attempt to emulate all of its quirks. The visual system was naturally one
of the first to be dissected and trivialized. It turned out to be fairly easy to
get a feed, an image that is, of what a person saw in their mind’s eye.

<!--more-->

The tech quickly caught up with the research and the first HoloSight came out
less than two years after the academic research. All you had to do was tuck the
thing behind your ear, remember something vivid, and poof, there it was, in
colorful holography. Problem was, most people don’t remember too well, so the
pictures often appeared fuzzy, faceless, or distorted in a myriad ways. Still,
there were a few whose memories held perfect impressions of reality and whose
imaginations could paint fiction just as clearly. They were called Seers and
they became the Beethovens and Mozarts of the modern world.  Some were
classically trained, having had to retard their vision with a wooden brush and a
pastel set, but most were simply dreamers who would have never survived the
urban rat race had they lived in the decades of past.

As the demand grew, Sight became bidirectional and could pump all five senses
from one person to the next. You could chain together a few or broadcast to
millions, as long as there was enough bandwidth and memory to maintain the
integrity of the feed. Virtual Worlds became a dime a dozen and many liked to
jack in and tune out. They wanted to own suburban homes and have four kids, not
live in Megablocks, breathe polluted air, and have to win a lottery in order to
copulate. Sight gave them the escape they dreamed of and for a while they went
back and forth between reality and utopia. They worked for food and lived for
Sight. But something strange began to happen as more and more addicts checked
out while on the wire. Some of their avatars persisted, the machines having had
enough time to reverse engineer their identities, their souls. The bodies died
but the minds kept on living. It was a welcome feature. Soon enough regular
folks began taking their own lives, some even took their families with them.
There was a suicide streak that went on for years and for the first time in
modern history the population plummeted.

Do you know what happens when three quarters of the world's population takes a
dirt nap? You'd think it would be a catastrophe but it actually turned out quite
alright. The religious nuts were the first to go. They called it "Heaven on
Earth" and didn’t wait long to follow their beloved ministers to an imaginary
Salvation. The oppressed, the cynical, and the power hungry went next. Everyone
now had a choice to make, and those who stuck around all had something in
common. They were motivated and ready to start over. After a while, clean water
and air stopped being a commodity and there was enough food to feed everyone.
With a universal single mindedness we began to terraform, bringing the Earth
back to the way she was when the dinosaurs roamed, blue and green, not red and
grey.
